We are naturally drawn to it.
Whether it is epic
or subtle,
artistic beauty captivates us.
Sometimes it astonishes us
in unexpected places.
For example, sea slugs
sport bold colors
that may ward off potential predators.
But to us, these colors
form artistic arrangements
of stunning beauty.
Chameleons are known
for their ability to alter their coloring
—sometimes to blend in,
sometimes to warn,
but at other times
to attract the eyes
of a potential mate.
Some unrelated animals
seem to have gone
to the same artistic school,
as in the case of the peacock spider
and its namesake.
Unlike a static painting,
many animals use motion
to extend their arrangements of color,
texture, and form.
Few birds can match the flamboyance
of male birds of paradise.
Mating pairs of western grebes
take artistic performance a step further.
They put on intricately timed
and precisely executed dances
—the ultimate water ballet.
Male bowerbirds
show an almost artistic sensibility
by arranging material
from their environment
in a manner we happen to find
aesthetically appealing.
Another animal that displays
what resembles a creative impulse
assembles an exhibition
of immense scale
when compared to its size.
The white-spotted pufferfish
sculpts an intricate pattern
on the seafloor sand
that we find beautiful.
The male that labors
on this underwater installation
hopes a female will take note
and approve.
What do you think?
Did the artistry we see in animals
simply evolve?
Or was it designed?